+++
title = "Curate Items"
weight = 20
+++

# Curate items

Curating the items meta data helps finding them later. This page
describes how you can quickly go through those items and correct or
amend with existing data.

## Select New items

After files have been uploaded and the job executor created the
corresponding items, they will show up on the main page. All items the
job executor has just created are initially marked as *New*. The
option *Inbox* in the left search menu can be used to select only new
items:

{{ figure2(light="docspell-curate-1.png", dark="docspell-curate-1_dark.png") }}

Then you can go through all new items and check their metadata: Click
on the first item to open the detail view. This shows the documents
and the meta data in the header.


## Modify if necessary

You can compare the data with the documents and change as you like.
Since the item status is *New*, you'll see the suggestions docspell
found during processing. If there were multiple candidates, you can
select another one by clicking its name in the suggestion list. In
state *New* the left menu is fully expanded so you see all suggestions
immediatly.

{{ figure2(light="docspell-curate-3.png", dark="docspell-curate-3_dark.png") }}


When you change something in the form, it is immediatly applied.

It is also possible to change tags and folders in the list view via
drag&drop.

<div class="flex items-center justify-center">
  {{ imgnormal2(light="drop-tag.png", dark="drop-tag_dark.png", width="500px") }}
</div>

## Confirm

If everything looks good, click the *Confirm* button to confirm the
current data. The *New* status goes away and also the suggestions are
hidden in this state. All metadata form fields are folded as they were
before. You can always go back by clicking the *Unconfirm* button at
the right of the menu bar.


{{ figure2(light="docspell-curate-5.png", dark="docspell-curate-5_dark.png") }}


## Proceed with next item

To look at the next item in the search results, click the *Next*
button in the menu (next to the *Edit* button). Clicking next, will
keep the current view, so you can continue checking the data. If you
are on the last item, the view switches to the listing view when
clicking *Next*.

{{ figure2(light="docspell-curate-6.png", dark="docspell-curate-6_dark.png") }}
